BLENDER

- unit scale and unit selection on scene panel
- measuring tool
- menus de dalt a la dreta et permeten mesurar tambe - recorda estar en edge mode

- com treballar amb meshes grans
- bit.ly/32Eo5Cy

1st step to clean:
- remove duplicated vertices
- edit mode - alt M in object mode
- decimate - collapse - ratio: % to keep
- 

- how to make a flat surface on the bottom
boolean - enable addon. edit preferences bool tool - adds shortcuts
- wuan selecciones varis objectes, lutim es l'actiu
- ctrl - del numpad

per omplir un forat de sota:

A selecciona tots els vertex, alt a deselecciona
B for box seleccion. C for circle selection - mouse wheel scales brush, left cick to paint, right to unpaint.
Seleccionem tots els del forat
varies opcions, moursels tots, mourels tots i fer un boolean un altre cop... scale Z 0 per posarlos tots a 0, i despres mourels tots al nivell de la base.
Si borrem tots els vertexs queda buit per sota, anem a unir la mesh.

Alt click selecciona tots els vertex de lexterior. alt F omplira una cara entre tots els vertexs seleccionats amb triangles. F crearia un ngon gran, pero no va tant be


sculpting va molt be per ajustar models escanejats. per sculpt millor tenir bona resolucio
si no la tenim podem fer remesh: modifier: subdivisino surface
sculpt mode, draw i a dalt a la dreta surt un menu - remesh
la idea es fer un cicle remesh - decimate - remesh per tenir detall on volem i menys on no

sculpt tools:
click activa, shift click smooth brush, ctrl is opposite
right click changes properties
f and shift f change strenght and size

0 flatten: ojo que per defecte tenim mirror activat a dalt a la dreta i afectarem les dues bandes.
pinch you can add more detail

when you pull and push you loose detail but you can remesh again. it will not create more detail in other parts, it will just make all faces homogeneous


how to do lowpoly
decimate

dont abuse resolution, the small printed models will not have all the detail

how to fix holes

- addons print - 3d print toolbox

then N shows 3d print on the right sidebar menu

check - solid: tells you vertices that are not connected
in edit mode, theres a button on the results, and alt f fills
then we can remesh and smooth with sculpt and decimate again



Normals pointing inwards - it can confuse the slicer

3d printing toolbox should detect some problems. - all the perimeter of the inverted faces
it can show overhang as well

select all faces and recalculate normals - takes an average of the right direction and changes the ones that are not.





isolated vertices

clikc P to separate objects and all of them will become separate objects
then either select or select what you want and ctrl I to select invert
X and delete to delete vertices



0 Faces - faces that have no area
when you click on the check analyzer it selects the faces but we dont know where it is. point on numpad focuses on it
from the menu, View Frame Selected
sculpt smooth should fix most of these




non flat faces, non planar faces
stl will automatically triangulate




overhang faces
you can make custom supports on blender or let the slicer do it. This way you can put them  in hidden parts and so on.
you can also break your mesh in parts and join them later on




sharp edges
 smooth in sculpt or select and smooth with the smooth command
 
 
 
 other ways to close a hole
using the clean up section of the 3d printing toolbox has the option to fil with an ngon



how to remove the inner part of a scanned model
try to delete the inner faces and fill holes
a good strategy is to hide the vertices that you want to keep 
click H hides the selected vertices
alt H unhides
and the fill the hole ifn eeded
if you select with solid you will only select the ones on the side your painting from
XRAy on the top right menu might help as well



3d print menu
transform: can actually scale it to fit in the bounds that you tell them. better than doing it manually



REMEMBER TO ALWAYS APPLY MODIFIERS BEFORE EXPORTING
otherwise it will be exported before the modifiers
there is a checkbox on the export menu to apply them as well



when you design for 3d printing it's different than for cutting etc...

http://www.instructables.com/id/3D-Design-For-3D-Printing/?ALLSTEPS
for instance, instead of a circular hole, draw a drop-shape with 45 deg on top.


other slicing options:

Cura is based on the cura engine. Cura engine is opensource

slic3r is an opensource
prusa took it - prusaslicer - very powerful, harder to use than cura


you can get thicker lines if you put more pressure on the plastic when it comes out. when you stick layers on top of the other they flatten.
you have to crank up the temperature a bit


Many common 3d printing errors: DO CHECK
https://www.simplify3d.com/support/print-quality-troubleshooting/



http://reprap.org/wiki/Print_Troubleshooting_Pictorial_Guide
https://all3dp.com/common-3d-printing-problems-3d-printer-troubleshooting-guide/

you normally have to iterate on your piece. it never comes out as the model . play with the mparameters.


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


